#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

= Introduction =

This page describes current development of the Anomaly Detection for Maritime Security tool for ICODE-MDA, including who is developing the tool, it's status, and technical details with examples.

= Tool Developer =

Joel Dabrowski

= Background and Application =
In the efforts of maintaining maritime security, maritime surveillance is essential. Electronic surveillance is a tool that can be utilized to  survey  the  maritime  domain.  With  the  vast  spatial  range  of  the  oceans  and  shorelines,  electronic surveillance provides a large set of data. This set of data is too large for a human analyst or operator to efﬁciently observe for the purpose of maritime vessel control and monitoring. Automatic maritime domain awareness systems provide a means for machines to analyse and interpret electronic surveillance data. The purpose of this tool is to provide such a system. One that is able to analyse and detect illegal activity.

= Applications = 
Applications for the tool include:
 * Piracy
 * Smuggling
 * Illegal immigration.

= Simulation =

The tool shall be tested using an agent based simulation environment. The simulation environment may be configured over a particular region with a set of vessels that operate within the region. Each of the vessel's behaviour is simulated using a finite state machine.

= Anomaly Detection=

The environment shall be modelled using a probabilistic graphical model. In particular the Markov Random Field is of interest. The model will provide a means for a classification based anomaly detection algorithm to be implemented. This algorithm will have the purpose of detecting illegal activities.

= Current Status = 

Currently the simulation environment is being developed in MATLAB. Path planning, vessel motion and basic finite state machines have been implemented.