#summary Automated SAR Ship Detection Tool Development Page.

= Introduction =

This page describes current development of the Automated SAR Ship Detection tool for ICODE-MDA, including who is developing the tool, it's status, and technical details with examples.

= Background =

Illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing is locally as well as internationally of serious concern. IUU fishing occurs both on the high seas and in the areas under national sovereignty and threatens the conservation and management of world wide fish stocks leading to adverse effects on food security and environmental protection.

There has been a lot of progress made in fight against IUU fishing. Many governments have been actively involved in negotiation on the text of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization Agreement on Port State Measures to Prevent, Deter and Eliminate Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated Fishing and is continuing its efforts to mitigate IUU fishing together with other concerned members of the international community [[http://www.daff.gov.au/fisheries/iuu/illegal-fishing/ 1]].

Despite efforts to reduce IUU fishing, it still poses a very real threat to all fisheries stakeholders. IUU activities are by nature done covertly making monitoring very difficult. Due to lack of monitoring, control and surveillance (MCS) there is a very real threat that industrial fishing vessels could encroach unnoticed in fishing zones which, for example, is reserved for small-scale fisheries [2]. 

A relevant example is the Southern Ocean that surrounds the continent of Antarctica. In 1982 the Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR) was established to conserve marine life of the Southern Ocean. An alarming increase in IUU fishing activity in the area has been noticed [3]. Due to a lack of MCS, the conservation measures of the CCAMLR is severely compromised. The large size of the Southern Ocean makes it very difficult for Member States to mitigate IUU fishing in the area.

There is no single tool that is able to provide all the necessary information for location, tracking and eventually apprehending IUU fishers and MCS authorities subsequently have to make use of a series of tools. One of the most promising tools are satellite-based monitoring systems (such as VMS or AIS) which is able to transmit information about the vessels, such as name and location to authorities in real time. It should however be stressed that these satellite information systems should be used in conjunction with other tools and are not to be regarded as the single solution to vessel tracking.

SAR has the ability to penetrate clouds and provide interferometric and polarimetry information on ground targets making detection of ships using SAR a very attractive solution. SAR imagery can potentially be used to detect a range of maritime activity, including small vessels, large ocean-going ships and even oil spills. Another advantage of using SAR is the large swath widths that these satellite based sensors can cover (thousands of square kilometres can be covered in a single pass) which reduces the monitoring cost per square kilometre significantly when compared to manual monitoring systems.

SAR technology has recently been applied to fisheries monitoring with promising results. There is however a need to further develop image processing and interpretation ability before a widespread application of SAR in the fisheries monitoring domain can be expected [5].

Although there are commercial SAR based vessel detection services [6] [7], these services would typically only indicate the location of detected ships that are not seen by VMS or AIS using the data from a specific SAR satellite platform. 

= Related news articles =

[http://www.defenceweb.co.za/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=24437:navy-to-establish-maritime-awareness-centres&catid=51:Sea&Itemid=106/ Navy to establish Maritime Awareness Centres]

[http://www.defenceweb.co.za/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=20466:ghanas-navy-receives-four-new-patrol-vessels&catid=51:Sea&Itemid=106/ Ghana’s navy receives four new patrol vessels]

= Tool Developers =
 * Michael Agbo Tettey Soli
 * Kwame Agyekum
 * Brian Salmon
 * Waldo Kleynhans

= Current Status of Tool =  

Michael has developed OSSIM C++ code to read in satellite images and
tile it according to the user specific dimensions and convert it to an
IPL image for Kwame’s ship detection algorithm to be applied on the IPL
images. He has packaged this into a header file that can be used easily.
He is currently working on modularizing Kwame’s ship detection code into
functions that can be called at various stages for defined purposes.

Brian and Waldo are developing OSSIM C++ code that can be used to detect ships. The source code is currently being packaged into functions that can easily be accessed by including the header file. They are also in the process of creating a scholarship program dedicated to this project that will be funded by  [http://www.armscor.co.za/ Armscor] and [http://www.csir.co.za/ CSIR].

= Technical Details and Examples =

https://icode-mda.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/footprints.jpg<br>
Figure1 : Acquisition profile of ASAR images over the Africa continent. 

https://icode-mda.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/Ship01.png<br>
Figure 2: Ships detected using SAR images shown in figure 1.

https://icode-mda.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/Ship02.png<br>
Figure 3: Ships detected in the Gulf of Guinea.

https://icode-mda.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/Ship03.png<br>
Figure 4: Ships detected of the east coast of South Africa.

= Reference =

[1] 


[2] “COMBATING ILLEGAL, UNREPORTED AND UNREGULATED FISHING THROUGH MONITORING, CONTROL AND SURVEILLANCE, PORT STATE MEASURES AND OTHER MEANS” Twenty-seventh Session Rome, Italy, 5 - 9 March 2007


[3] http://www.ccamlr.org/pu/E/sc/fish-monit/iuu-intro.htm


[4] “FAO REGIONAL WORKSHOP ON PORT STATE MEASURES TO COMBAT ILLEGAL, UNREPORTED AND UNREGULATED FISHING “ Cape Town, South Africa, 28–31 January 2008


[5] http://www.fao.org/fishery/topic/18107/en


[6] http://www.ksat.no/


[7] http://www.cls.fr


[8] D. J. Crisp , The State-of-the-Art in Ship Detection in Synthetic Aperture Radar Imagery. Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Division , Report number DSTO–RR–0272





Last updated: Monday, 23 April 2012
Proposed date for next update of website: Monday, 23 April 2012