#summary Getting Started with OMAR

= Introduction =

OMAR is a web based system for archival, retrieval, processing, and distribution of geospatial assets. Satellite and aerial images, vector sets, unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) video sets, as well as user generated tags and reference items can be easily searched and manipulated with the system. Searching can be performed on the basis of location, time, or any combination of the stored metadata. OMAR is unique in its ability to dynamically process raw materials and create value added products on the fly. Imagery is orthorectified (geometrically corrected), precision terrain corrected, and histogram stretched on demand. OMAR combines, fuses, or chips areas of interest according to the users needs. Geospatial assets can then be manipulated, viewed, and processed to provide a wide range of value added products.

= Details =
To get started with OMAR development, you will first have to get the development environment setup. To do this, checkout the Installation Instructions:
  * [OMAR_Installation OMAR Installation Instructions for fedora 14 x64]
  * [OMAR_WarDeployment_Fedora16 OMAR WAR deployment for fedora 16 x64 ]
  * [Omar_Installation_fedora17 OMAR installation Instructions for fedora 17 x64 ]
  * [InstallOmarOnWindows64 OMAR Installation Instructons for Windows7 64bit]

Once you have OMAR installed, you're ready to start developing. We've made a few guides to developing that are listed below:
  # [OMAR_CreateSamplePlugin Creating a sample plugin]
  # [OMAR_Creating_geodata_sample_plugin Creating the Geodata plugin]
  # [OMAR_ADD_WMS_LAYER Adding a WMS layer]