This page provides a number of sources of satellite imagery, both free and for purchase.

= Sources of Free Satellite Imagery=

|| *Data Source* || *Company* || *Weblink* ||
|| TerraSAR-X, Tandem-X, SPOT-4/5, DEMs || Astrium-Geo || http://www.astrium-geo.com/en/23-sample-imagery ||
|| Radarsat-1 and Radarsat-2 || MDA || http://gs.mdacorporation.com/SatelliteData/Radarsat2/SampleDataset.aspx ||
|| Radarsat-1 from Hawaii supersite || MDA || http://supersites.earthobservations.org/cdn_HawaiiRSAT.html ||
|| ENVISAT Products (ASAR, MERIS, etc) || European Space Agency || http://envisat.esa.int/services/sample_products/ ||
|| Landsat-7, Radarsat-1, ALOS || ACRES || ftp://acres.ga.gov.au/acres/samples ||
|| Level-1 MODIS || NASA || http://ladsweb.nascom.nasa.gov/ ||
|| Landsat || NASA/USGS || http://earthexplorer.usgs.gov/ ||

 

Some data requires applying online.  In particular, both ESA and DLR (TerraSAR-X) provide data at reduced costs for research.  

[https://earth.esa.int/web/guest/data-access/content?p_r_p_564233524_assetIdentifier=how-to-apply-1375 How to Apply for ESA Datasets]

[http://sss.terrasar-x.dlr.de/ How to Apply for TerraSAR-X and Tandem-X Datasets]

[http://www.ngdc.noaa.gov/mgg/shorelines/gshhs.html Vector shoreline data provided by NOAA]

= Commercial Satellite Imagery=

The following are sources for commercial imagery, both Synthetic Aperture Radar and Electro-Optical.  Depending on your geographical location, you may purchase data from an authorized reseller for your region.  









= Sources of Other Maritime Data =


In 1998,  International Maritime Organization's (IMO) International Convention passed Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS), requiring Automated Identification System (AIS) transponders to be fitted aboard international voyaging ships with gross tonnage (GT) of 300 or more tons, and all passenger ships regardless of size NLT 31 December, 2004.  It's estimated that approximately 40,000 ships currently carry class A AIS equipment.  

In 2007, the Class B AIS standard was introduced which enabled a new generation of low cost AIS transceivers.  Class B equipment is now required on most vessels in many nations (Singapore, China, Turkey and North America).  It's estimated that over 100,000 vessels worldwide currently carry class B transponders.

AIS was originally designed primarily for search and rescue, collision avoidance, and accident investigation.  However, in recent years, many additional applications of AIS have developed, including maritime security and monitoring.  

There are four main types of AIS systems:

1)  Class A 
  * Integrated display showing other vessels information.
  * 12W transmission power (30nm range typically)
  * Interface to ship navigation systems (gyrocompass, GNSS)
  * Transmission rate every 3-120 seconds (depending on activity)
2)  Class B 
  * 2 W transmission power (8nm range typically)
  * Transmission rate every 30 seconds
  * Requires at least GPS and VHF antenna
3)  Base Stations
  * Shore-based AIS transceiver able to control/interrogate individual transponders within range
4)  Aids to Navigation (AtoN)
  * Shore or buoy based transceiver designed to collect and transmit sea and weather condition messages.

A Class A AIS system consists of three main components:

  # AIS Transceiver – transmits binary formatted messages at regular intervals.  Also receives AIS messages from all transponders within VHF range.  
  # VHF antenna – receives and transmits AIS messages to be decoded by the AIS transceiver
  # GPS antenna – used to provided GPS position of vessel in AIS messages
  # In addition, the AIS transceiver will often be hooked into ship-board gyros to provide rate of turn and true heading information.


AIS messages are transmitted in the VHF maritime channels 87B (161.975 MHz) and 88B (162.025MHz).  Any VHF antenna can receive AIS messages, which can then be decoded by the AIS receiver.  There are 25 distinct AIS message types, each described in detail at http://gpsd.berlios.de/AIVDM.html.  AIS contains a wide variety of information about the vessel, including both dynamic (speed, heading, rate of turn) and static (vessel name, destination, length, width) information.  

Although the range of AIS is limited to VHF range, it is possible to collect AIS messages for large areas by pushing messages collected locally to a network.  In the past decade, several networks of terrestrial AIS receivers have been developed.  These networks collect AIS received from a large number of land-based AIS receivers from around the world.   Several examples of AIS networks are listed below:

  * http://www.shippingexplorer.net/ - Live Vessel Tracking
  * http://www.marinetraffic.com/ais/default.aspx?language=_EN – Marine Traffic
  * http://www.digital-seas.com/ - Worldwide real time vessel tracking
  * http://Vesseltracker.com  - Worldwide AIS tracking Website
  * http://www.vtexplorer.com/ - AIS vessel tracking based on standalone VT Explorer application
  * http://www.ios-hellas.gr/ais - Vessels from around the world update 
  * http://www.mariweb.gr/ecs - On-Line tracking of vessels from around the world
  * http://www.shipspotting.com/modules/myalbum/ais.php - Vessels in Northern Europe
  * http://www.vesseltrax.com/ -  Vessels in the Gulf of Mexico and Texas Ports
  * http://www.shipais.com/ - Vessels in the Irish Sea, Great Britain, United Kingdom, and Ireland
  * http://www.lrfairplay.com/ - Loyds register of ship information
  * http://www.atlanticsource.es/sat/ - Vessels around the world
  * http://www.shipplotter.dk/dk-kort.html - Vessels around Denmark
  * http://www.northernbaltic.se/ais/ - Live AIS Vessels in Northern Baltic Sea
  * http://www.trackaship.com - Ship and vessel tracking worldwide.

