#summary Some project ideas that we think would be cool to work on
<wiki:toc max_depth="4" />
=Project Ideas=
==Ship Detection in Synthetic Aperture Radar Imagery==
Liu, Yingjian; Ma, Hui; Yang, Yanming; Liu, Yanyan; , "Automatic ship detection from SAR images," Spatial Data Mining and Geographical Knowledge Services (ICSDM), 2011 IEEE International Conference on , vol., no., pp.386-388, June 29 2011-July 1 2011
doi: 10.1109/ICSDM.2011.5969070
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5969070&isnumber=5968118
Changren Zhu; Hui Zhou; Runsheng Wang; Jun Guo; , "A Novel Hierarchical Method of Ship Detection from Spaceborne Optical Image Based on Shape and Texture Features," Geoscience and Remote Sensing, IEEE Transactions on , vol.48, no.9, pp.3446-3456, Sept. 2010
doi: 10.1109/TGRS.2010.2046330
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5454348&isnumber=5552163
Wang Juan; Sun Lijie; , "Study on Ship Target Detection and Recognition in SAR imagery," Information Science and Engineering (ICISE), 2009 1st International Conference on , vol., no., pp.1456-1459, 26-28 Dec. 2009
doi: 10.1109/ICISE.2009.1132
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5454744&isnumber=5454428
Ting Liu; Lampropoulos, G.A.; Chuhong Fei; , "CFAR ship detection system using polarimetric data," Radar Conference, 2008. RADAR '08. IEEE , vol., no., pp.1-4, 26-30 May 2008
doi: 10.1109/RADAR.2008.4721035
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=4721035&isnumber=4720717
 
==Data Correlation and Tracking==
There are two components to the problem.  
1)  Creating and maintaining tracks from data points.
2)  Fusing tracks and/or data points from several data sources.
multi-sensor Trackers --

New track correlation algorithms in a multisensor data fusion system , by He You, Zhang Jingwei, Aerospace and Electronic Systems IEEE (2006) 
Volume: 42, Issue: 4, Pages: 1359-1371

Architectures and Algorithms for Track Association and Fusion
http://ite.gmu.edu/~kchang/publications/conference_pdf/con%20_7_ARCH_AND_ALGO.PDF

Multiple hypothesis tracking for multiple target tracking, Aerospace and Electronic Systems Magazine, IEEE , January 2004.  Pages 5 - 18 .  Blackman, S.S.;  http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpls/abs_all.jsp?arnumber=1263228 

Good info from Matlab thread
http://www.mathworks.cn/matlabcentral/newsreader/view_thread/249783 

Algorithms for matching vectors.  We can think of two distinct sets of data as two sets of vectrors
[ lat lon length width heading ....]
To correlate data set 1 with data set 2, we need to find the best match between each of the vectors in data set 1 with all of the vectors in dataset 2
OpenCV has many algorithms for matching vectors.  Although they are used in OpenCV for matching image feature vectors, they can also be used to match data vectors.  
http://opencv.itseez.com/modules/features2d/doc/common_interfaces_of_descriptor_matchers.html 
Data matching algorithms in OpenCV:
KNN Matching - Finds the k best matches for each descriptor from a query set.
Brute Force - For each descriptor in the first set, this matcher finds the closest descriptor in the second set by trying each one


==Ocean Surface Analysis (Oil slick detection, Ocean current detection/analysis)==
Innman, A.; Easson, G.; Asper, V.L.; Diercks, A.; , "The effectiveness of using MODIS products to map sea surface oil," OCEANS 2010 , vol., no., pp.1-5, 20-23 Sept. 2010
doi: 10.1109/OCEANS.2010.5664416
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5664416&isnumber=5663781
Mercier, G.; Girard-Ardhuin, F.; , "Oil slick detection by SAR imagery using Support Vector Machines," Oceans 2005 - Europe , vol.1, no., pp. 90- 95 Vol. 1, 20-23 June 2005
doi: 10.1109/OCEANSE.2005.1511690
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=1511690&isnumber=32366
Lennon, M.; Thomas, N.; Mariette, V.; Babichenko, S.; Mercier, G.; , "Oil slick detection and characterization by satellite and airborne sensors: experimental results with SAR, hyperspectral and lidar data," Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium, 2005. IGARSS '05. Proceedings. 2005 IEEE International , vol.1, no., pp. 4 pp., 25-29 July 2005
doi: 10.1109/IGARSS.2005.1526165
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=1526165&isnumber=32595
M. M. Bowen , W. J. Emery , J. Wilken , P. C. Tildesley , I. J. Barton and R. Knewtson  "Extracting multi-year surface currents from sequential thermal imagery using the maximum cross correlation technique",  J. Atmos. Ocean. Technol.,  vol. 19,  pp.1665 2002
Crocker, R. I.; Matthews, D. K.; Emery, W. J.; Baldwin, D. G.; , "Computing Coastal Ocean Surface Currents From Infrared and Ocean Color Satellite Imagery," Geoscience and Remote Sensing, IEEE Transactions on , vol.45, no.2, pp.435-447, Feb. 2007
doi: 10.1109/TGRS.2006.883461
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=4069100&isnumber=4069093
Girard-Ardhuin, F.; Mercier, G.; Collard, F.; Garello, R.; , "Oil slick detection by SAR imagery: algorithms comparison," Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium, 2004. IGARSS '04. Proceedings. 2004 IEEE International , vol.7, no., pp.4726-4729 vol.7, 20-24 Sept. 2004
doi: 10.1109/IGARSS.2004.1370214
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=1370214&isnumber=29951
W. J. Emery , C. Fowler and A. Clayson  "Satellite-image-derived Gulf Stream currents compared with numerical model results",  J. Atmos. Ocean. Technol.,  vol. 9,  pp.286 1992
Fernandez, D.M.; Teague, C.C.; Vesecky, J.F.; Roughgarden, J.D.; , "Upwelling and relaxation events inferred from high-frequency radar measurements of coastal ocean surface currents," Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium, 1993. IGARSS '93. Better Understanding of Earth Environment., International , vol., no., pp.1931-1933 vol.4, 18-21 Aug 1993
doi: 10.1109/IGARSS.1993.322377
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=322377&isnumber=7705
Marcello, J.; Eugenio, F.; Marques, F.; , "Methodology for the estimation of ocean surface currents using region matching and differential algorithms," Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium, 2007. IGARSS 2007. IEEE International , vol., no., pp.882-885, 23-28 July 2007
doi: 10.1109/IGARSS.2007.4422938
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=4422938&isnumber=4422708


==Vessel Classification from Hyperspectral and Multispectral data 
Key Algorithms:  Anomaly Detection (ie RX anomaly detection), spectral classification methods==
Bo Du; Liangpei Zhang; , "Random-Selection-Based Anomaly Detector for Hyperspectral Imagery," Geoscience and Remote Sensing, IEEE Transactions on , vol.49, no.5, pp.1578-1589, May 2011
doi: 10.1109/TGRS.2010.2081677
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5628269&isnumber=5753065
Patra, S.; Bruzzone, L.; , "A Fast Cluster-Assumption Based Active-Learning Technique for Classification of Remote Sensing Images," Geoscience and Remote Sensing, IEEE Transactions on , vol.49, no.5, pp.1617-1626, May 2011
doi: 10.1109/TGRS.2010.2083673
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5659475&isnumber=5753065
Chein-I Chang; Weimin Liu; Chein-Chi Chang; , "Discrimination and identification for subpixel targets in hyperspectral imagery," Image Processing, 2004. ICIP '04. 2004 International Conference on , vol.5, no., pp. 3339- 3342 Vol. 5, 24-27 Oct. 2004
doi: 10.1109/ICIP.2004.1421829
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=1421829&isnumber=30680
Veracini, T.; Matteoli, S.; Diani, M.; Corsini, G.; , "Robust hyperspectral image segmentation based on a non-Gaussian model," Cognitive Information Processing (CIP), 2010 2nd International Workshop on , vol., no., pp.192-197, 14-16 June 2010
doi: 10.1109/CIP.2010.5604242
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5604242&isnumber=5604034


==High performance computing + Hyperspectral imagery processing==
Sánchez, S.; Plaza, A.; , "GPU implementation of the pixel purity index algorithm for hyperspectral image analysis," Cluster Computing Workshops and Posters (CLUSTER WORKSHOPS), 2010 IEEE International Conference on , vol., no., pp.1-7, 20-24 Sept. 2010
doi: 10.1109/CLUSTERWKSP.2010.5613110
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5613110&isnumber=5613076
Plaza, A.; Qian Du; Yang-Lang Chang; , "High performance computing for hyperspectral image analysis: Perspective and state-of-the-art," Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium,2009 IEEE International,IGARSS 2009 , vol.5, no., pp.V-72-V-75, 12-17 July 2009
doi: 10.1109/IGARSS.2009.5417729
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5417729&isnumber=5417612


==Algae Bloom Detection Using Remotely Sensed Data==
Richardson, L.L.; Ambrosia, V.G.; , "Hyperspectral imaging sensors and assessment of oceanic littoral zone phytoplankton dynamics," OCEANS '96. MTS/IEEE. 'Prospects for the 21st Century'. Conference Proceedings , vol.3, no., pp.1279-1284 vol.3, 23-26 Sep 1996
doi: 10.1109/OCEANS.1996.569087
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=569087&isnumber=12378
Bentz, C.M.; Politano, A.T.; Ebecken, N.F.F.; , "Automatic recognition of coastal and oceanic environmental events with orbital radars," Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium, 2007. IGARSS 2007. IEEE International , vol., no., pp.914-916, 23-28 July 2007
doi: 10.1109/IGARSS.2007.4422946
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=4422946&isnumber=4422708
Kutser, Tiit; “Quantitative Detection of Chlorophyll in Cyanobacterial Blooms by Satellite Remote Sensing,” Limnology and Oceanography, Vol. 49, No. 6 (Nov., 2004), pp. 2179-2189 
URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/3597522 
Rud, O.; Gade, M.; , "Using multi-sensor data for algae bloom monitoring," Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium, 2000. Proceedings. IGARSS 2000. IEEE 2000 International , vol.4, no., pp.1714-1716 vol.4, 2000
doi: 10.1109/IGARSS.2000.857322
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=857322&isnumber=18598


==Vessel Track Anomaly Detection and Position Prediction==

The idea here is to take historical tracks of all vessels as derived from for example AIS or coastal radar, as well as models for vessel behavior and detect the presence of a kinematic anomalies.  In addition, using models for vessel movement and behavior, be able to predict the most likely position of a vessel in the future or based on the last received position.  Predicted positions should have confidence associated with them.

==Vessel Information/Static  Anomaly Detection==

Here, static information from a vessel is used to identify anomalies or high risk vessels.  This information may come from a variety of sources;
i)  AIS static information like vessel name, MMSI, IMO, type, activity, cargo
ii)  Open source information from sites like vesseltracker.com
iii) Loyd's Fairplay data, which contains vessel owner, crew, cargo, and destination information.
These algorithms/tools should recognize unusual or high risk information for vessels.

==Small Vessel Detection in Coastal Radar Data==
Here, the goal is to take raw radar data and detect and track small vessels, which may otherwise be lost in traditional radar processing.  